1. 
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                         │ Only accepts letters, digits, - and _, up to 64 characters. Without this check,     │
│ SAFE_ID.test(incoming)  │ anyone could put line breaks or fake log text into the header and pollute your      │
│                         │ logs. That's called log injection.

2. 
You could have done it either way. The class exists for one reason: so the error handler can tell errors we created on purpose apart from everything else.

Option 1: plain Error with extra properties

const err = new Error('Invalid request body');
err.status = 400;
err.code = 'VALIDATION_ERROR';
err.details = details;
throw err;

This works, but the error handler then has to guess whether an error is safe to show the client:

if (err.status) {          // "has a status, so it must be one of ours?"
  res.status(err.status).json({ message: err.message });
}

That guess is unsafe, because other code also throws plain Errors, sometimes with a status:
- express.json() throws errors with status: 400.
- The pg driver throws messages like duplicate key value violates unique constraint "users_email_key".
- A typo in our own code throws TypeError: Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'id').

If any of those reached the client, it would reveal table names, constraint names or internal details. That's free information for an attacker.

Option 2: the AppError class (what we have)

if (err instanceof AppError) {   // created deliberately with `new AppError(...)`
  // safe: we wrote this message for the client
} else {
  // anything else: log it, and show the client only "Something went wrong"
}

instanceof AppError is true only for errors our own code created on purpose. Nothing outside our code can create one by accident. It works as a label meaning "this message is safe for users." That's why T12 (generic 500 messages) can be enforced at all.

The class also gives us:
- One line instead of five: throw new AppError(404, 'NOT_FOUND', 'No such upload').
- Consistency: every expected error has the same fields, so you can't forget code in one place.

Why extend Error and not use a plain object?

You might ask why not throw { status: 400, code: '…' }. Because extending Error:
- Keeps the stack trace. super(message) records where the error was created. A plain object has no stack, so you can't tell which line threw it.
- Works with tools that expect real errors. Express, Node and the test runner all treat real Errors properly.

The "vice versa": could AppError replace Error everywhere?

No, because we don't create most errors. Node throws TypeError, pg throws its own database errors, and Express throws parsing errors. The error handler must always deal with both kinds:
- AppError is expected, so we show its message.
- Everything else is unexpected, so we log it and hide it.

For comparison

The Express world has a ready-made package, http-errors (createError(404, 'Not found')). It marks errors with an expose: true/false flag instead of a class. It's the same idea, packaged as a library. We hand-wrote ours in 8 lines so you can see exactly how it works.

3. 
How it works:
- fetch() can't send a deliberately broken or half-finished request, so these tests build the HTTP request by hand with node:http. That's why there's a partHeader() helper that writes the multipart format directly.
- waitFor() checks a condition every 25 ms for up to 3 seconds. Cleanup after a dropped connection happens asynchronously, so the test can't check immediately.
- The size limit is set to 64 KB for this test file only, so oversized uploads are quick to send.

Fixtures: your sample CSVs and their README are now copied into backend/tests/fixtures/statements/, so tests don't depend on ~/Downloads. They're synthetic, per the README. I didn't copy generate-large-csv.js.
